{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 **Overview**\
\
\
This article overviews five open source A.I. and deep learning projects that developers should keep an eye on and look to experiment with. As more companies invest in A.I., more jobs will be created in this field, many of which will be in development roles. In fact, despite frequent concerns citing A.I. as having the potential to wipe out human labor, [Gartner](https://www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/3837763) says that A.I. will create more jobs than it eliminates. \
\
### A.I. and Deep Learning Development\
\
The decentralized open-source development model has impacted computer science in some profound ways; chief among them in recent years has been the rapid advancements in artificial intelligence. Exciting branches of A.I. such as machine learning and deep learning have come on leaps and bounds in recent years, and each passing year sees more [deep learning breakthroughs](https://www.forbes.com/sites/mariyayao/2018/02/05/12-amazing-deep-learning-breakthroughs-of-2017/#64c8f5af65db). \
\
No longer are A.I. libraries, frameworks, and platforms restricted to the few. Large technology companies including Microsoft and Amazon Web Services have released open source projects that give developers and data scientists the tools needed to improve their proficiency in coding and building A.I. applications and models. \
\
Following on from the success of open source projects, low-cost commercial platforms have also emerged that provide the tools needed to work with more high-level applications of A.I., [such as deep learning for computer vision](https://missinglink.ai/), which aims to equip computers with the power to gain a high-level understanding of images. \
\
### Open Source AI Projects\
\
**Gluon**\
\
Gluon is an open source deep learning interface that improves the speed, flexibility, and accessibility of deep learning technology for all developers without compromising performance. \
\
The Gluon project provides a concise API for defining machine learning models using pre-built neural network components, and it was jointly collaborated on by AWS and Microsoft. The user-friendly API lets developers build deep learning networks using clear, concise code while abstracting away the complexities, such as weighted scoring functions. \
\
Often in frameworks that attempt to simplify the process of building deep learning models, performance is impacted, however, AWS and Microsoft are clear that this is what differentiates Gluon from similar frameworks. This is definitely a framework worth experimenting with for developers who are new to deep learning. \
\
**Caffe**\
\
[Caffe](http://caffe.berkeleyvision.org/) is an open source deep learning framework with a Python-based interface. Developed by Berkeley AI Research and community contributors, Caffe is available under the BSD 2-Clause open source license. It is designed with modularity and expressiveness in mind\'97developers can define models through configuration alone, without needing to hard-code them. \
\
The Caffe project also emphasizes how its speed is ideal for experiment and research purposes. It has the ability to process over 60 million images per day with a single NVIDIA K40 GPU. Developers not wanting to use the Python interface also have the choice to use command line or Matlab interfaces. \
\
\
**TensorFlow**\
\
Originally developed by a team of Google engineers and researchers, the TensorFlow open source machine learning framework has grown to become one of the most well-maintained and popular projects, with over 28,000 commits and over 1,300 Github contributors. \
\
The TensorFlow Keras API gives developers the building blocks to create and train deep learning models in a beginner-friendly way. You can easily get to grips with basic classification and text classification before moving onto more complex workloads such as using production-scale machine learning models.  \
\
**SHAP**\
\
The projects mentioned thus far are more concerned with providing the basic building blocks of getting to grips with A.I. branches such as deep learning and machine learning. \
\
One important question that arises when becoming proficient at building and experimenting with such models is why did an algorithm make a certain decision. When you get insight into a given model\'92s inner workings, you get a solid base from which to improve its performance. \
\
Furthermore, because deep learning has applications in some really important fields (e.g. healthcare), it is imperative that end users trust the system, which can only happen when they understand its predictions. \
\
[SHAP](https://github.com/slundberg/shap) is an open source project that attempts to interpret the output/predictions of machine learning models using Shapley values, which is a concept in game theory.  \
\
**Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit**\
\
Microsoft\'92s own open source deep learning framework, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, is another solid option for developers searching for an expressive, easy-to-use architecture for deep learning models. \
\
The framework describes neural networks via a series of computational steps using a directed graph. You can work with Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit in your library in Python, C#, or C++. Alternatively, you can use it as a standalone tool and work with it using its native BrainScript model description language.\
\
**Wrap Up**\
\
The open source model gets high-quality, well-maintained A.I. frameworks and libraries into the hands of developers. Experiment with some of these open source projects to get a solid introduction to AI and deep learning from a development perspective, and you\'92ll soon be able to delve into more complex areas of interest, such as deep learning for computer vision. \
}